README.md, before:

# Declists

## Development Info
A project I'm working on to learn more about C++, APIs, and networking. Uses [Crow](https://github.com/CrowCpp/Crow) for the web server, [cpr](https://github.com/libcpr/cpr) for http requests, and a [JSON](https://github.com/nlohmann/json) and [YAML](https://github.com/jbeder/yaml-cpp) library to parse their respective formats.

Currently, the project can authenticate the user, search, create a playlist, and parse a YAML file for a playlist rule tree. However, due to limitations on Spotify's API access for in-development applications, only whitelisted accounts can authorize this app. If you want to run the program, you will need to create your own Spotify application at https://developer.spotify.com and replace the Client ID in the main file with your own.

When finished, the project will allow a user to create a YAML or JSON file describing a playlist using rules, which can then be added to their Spotify account.

## To Build
Run these commands to generate the build files and build the project. The output will be an executable called "declists" in the main directory.
```
cmake -B build
cmake --build build
```

## To Run
Run this command after building the application to execute it. The first argument should be a YAML file with a valid rule tree.
```
./declists decs/test.yaml
```

### Example of Current Usage
```YAML
name: Test
description: Tests the ability to create a playlist and add tracks
add:
- track: Anything > Human
  artist: Bad Omens
- track: Even
  artist: Bad Omens
- track: Concrete Jungle
  artist: Bad Omens
- track: Biblical Love
  artist: Flower Face
- track: Cornflower Blue
  album: The Shark in Your Water
  artist: Flower Face
- track: Take Me Back to Eden
  artist: Sleep Token
- track: Atlantic
  album: This Place Will Become Your Tomb
```
This file will create a playlist in Spotify with the supplied name and description. It then will search for and add songs based on the provided tracks, albums, and artists.

## Example of Planned Usage
#### YAML Declared Playlist
```YAML
name: Alternate Playlist
description: Could be anything
add:
- artist: Banshee
  song: PERFECT ANGEL
- artist: bodyimage
  remove:
  - album: Active Lovers
  - song: I AM
- artist: Crywolf
  remove:
  - album: Skeletons
    add:
      - Silk
```
This file will create a playlist in Spotify with the supplied name and description. It then will add songs based on the rules given. The root rule must always be 'add', and each item in the add list will be an artist, an album, or a song.

If multiple specifiers are given for one item, the app will use the less specific qualifiers as a filter. For example, this:
```YAML
- song: PERFECT ANGEL
```
will look for any song called "PERFECT ANGEL", while this:
```YAML
- track: PERFECT ANGEL
  artist: Banshee
```
will only return songs by Banshee called "PERFECT ANGEL". The qualifiers can be in any order, and track and song are interchangeable.

The other rule that can be used while declaring a playlist is 'remove'. This will remove songs added in parent rules. For example:
```YAML
- artist: bodyimage
  remove:
  - album: Active Lovers
```
will add all songs by bodyimage, and then remove the songs from "Active Lovers". Parent rules will also be used as qualifiers when searching for songs to remove, so the remove rule will search for albums and songs by bodyimage.

Rules of any depth will be supported. For example:
```YAML
- artist: Crywolf
  remove:
  - album: Skeletons
    add:
      - Silk
```
will add all songs by Crywolf, excluding those from "Skeletons" that aren't called "Silk".

Commit message:

Add GoogleTest and cover crypto

README.md, after:

# Declists

## Development Info
A project I'm working on to learn more about C++, APIs, and testing. Uses [Crow](https://github.com/CrowCpp/Crow) for a web server, [cpr](https://github.com/libcpr/cpr) for http requests, and a [JSON](https://github.com/nlohmann/json) and [YAML](https://github.com/jbeder/yaml-cpp) library to parse their respective formats. Also uses [GoogleTest](https://github.com/google/googletest) as the testing framework.

Currently, the project can authenticate the user, search, create a playlist, and parse a YAML file for a playlist rule tree. However, due to limitations on Spotify's API access for in-development applications, only whitelisted accounts can authorize this app. If you want to run the program, you will need to create your own Spotify application at https://developer.spotify.com and replace the Client ID in the main file with your own.

When finished, the project will allow a user to create a YAML or JSON file describing a playlist using rules, which can then be added to their Spotify account.

## To Build
Run these commands to generate the build files and build the project. The output will be an executable called "declists" in the build directory.
```Bash
cmake -B build
cd build
cmake --build .
```

## To Run
Run this command after building the application to execute it. The first argument should be a YAML file with a valid rule tree.
```Bash
./declists decs/test.yaml
```

### Example of Current Usage
```YAML
name: Test
description: Tests the ability to create a playlist and add tracks
add:
- track: Anything > Human
  artist: Bad Omens
- track: Even
  artist: Bad Omens
- track: Concrete Jungle
  artist: Bad Omens
- track: Biblical Love
  artist: Flower Face
- track: Cornflower Blue
  album: The Shark in Your Water
  artist: Flower Face
- track: Take Me Back to Eden
  artist: Sleep Token
- track: Atlantic
  album: This Place Will Become Your Tomb
```
This file will create a playlist in Spotify with the supplied name and description. It then will search for and add songs based on the provided tracks, albums, and artists.

## Testing
Currently, the *crypto* library has unit tests for every function. To run the tests, build the application and run the following command in the build directory.
```Bash
ctest
```

## Example of Planned Usage
#### YAML Declared Playlist
```YAML
name: Alternate Playlist
description: Could be anything
add:
- artist: Banshee
  song: PERFECT ANGEL
- artist: bodyimage
  remove:
  - album: Active Lovers
  - song: I AM
- artist: Crywolf
  remove:
  - album: Skeletons
    add:
      - Silk
```
This file will create a playlist in Spotify with the supplied name and description. It then will add songs based on the rules given. The root rule must always be 'add', and each item in the add list will be an artist, an album, or a song.

If multiple specifiers are given for one item, the app will use the less specific qualifiers as a filter. For example, this:
```YAML
- song: PERFECT ANGEL
```
will look for any song called "PERFECT ANGEL", while this:
```YAML
- track: PERFECT ANGEL
  artist: Banshee
```
will only return songs by Banshee called "PERFECT ANGEL". The qualifiers can be in any order, and track and song are interchangeable.

The other rule that can be used while declaring a playlist is 'remove'. This will remove songs added in parent rules. For example:
```YAML
- artist: bodyimage
  remove:
  - album: Active Lovers
```
will add all songs by bodyimage, and then remove the songs from "Active Lovers". Parent rules will also be used as qualifiers when searching for songs to remove, so the remove rule will search for albums and songs by bodyimage.

Rules of any depth will be supported. For example:
```YAML
- artist: Crywolf
  remove:
  - album: Skeletons
    add:
      - Silk
```
will add all songs by Crywolf, excluding those from "Skeletons" that aren't called "Silk".
